README.md, before:

whistle
=======

A repo for refs.

## Adding to the file 

New additions must abide the following rules

### index
lastname1stauthor:year  (all lower)(one author) \
lastname1stauthor:lastname2ndauthor:year  (two authors) \
lastname1stauthor:etal:year   (more than two authors) \

This step can often be accomplished using automated tools in Bibdesk, Jabref, and other citation managers. 

### Author names and initials 
For author names in the citations make sure that the full name is available, 
i.e., Michael D. Ward not M.D. Ward

Full initials that are abbreviations need a period
i.e., Michael D. Ward not Michael D Ward

### Titles 
Titles should be in environment delimiters {}

## Deduplication of entries

Deduplication can be accomplished using a number of the tools listed above. However, sometimes it is more straightforward to use the command-line program [bibtool](http://www.ctan.org/tex-archive/biblio/bibtex/utils/bibtool). 

To sort and deduplicate your entries, with output redirected to a new file, use the following command:
```
bibtool -s -d infile.bib -o outfile.bib
```

## Removing URLs from references
URLs can often cause problems when moving between various citation managers and/or compiling your LaTeX document. For this reason we added the `unfurl.rb` utility.

Usage:
```ruby unfurl.rb < infile.bib > outfile.bib```

Commit message:

add command-line instructions for key generation, merging, deduplication, normalization, and integration

README.md, after:

whistle
=======

A repo for refs.

## Adding to the file 

New additions must abide the following rules

### index
lastname1stauthor:year  (all lower)(one author) \
lastname1stauthor:lastname2ndauthor:year  (two authors) \
lastname1stauthor:etal:year   (more than two authors) \


This step can often be accomplished using automated tools in Bibdesk, Jabref, and other citation managers. An easy way to do it from the command line is 

```
bibtool -r key-format.rsc infile.bib -o outfile.bib
```

### Author names and initials 
For author names in the citations make sure that the full name is available, 
i.e., Michael D. Ward not M.D. Ward

Full initials that are abbreviations need a period
i.e., Michael D. Ward not Michael D Ward

### Titles 
Titles should be in environment delimiters {}

### Deduplication of entries

Deduplication can be accomplished using a number of the tools listed above. However, sometimes it is more straightforward to use the command-line program [bibtool](http://www.ctan.org/tex-archive/biblio/bibtex/utils/bibtool). 

To sort and deduplicate your entries, with output redirected to a new file, use the following command:
```
bibtool -s -d infile.bib -o outfile.bib
```

### Removing URLs from references
URLs can often cause problems when moving between various citation managers and/or compiling your LaTeX document. For this reason we added the `unfurl.rb` utility.

Usage:
```ruby unfurl.rb < infile.bib > outfile.bib```

## Summary
To add a new file to master, attempt the following:

```
ruby unfurl.rb < newfile.bib > newfile-unfurled.bib # strip urls
bibtool -s master.bib newfile-unfurled.bib -o master1.bib # merge and sort 
sed "s/\:-/\:/g" master1.bib > master2.bib # handles problem with some author names in keys
```

This process avoids overwriting existing files at each stage, but you can do so if you're feeling bold. At the end you can verify that master2.bib fits your desired criteria. If so, that's the new master file.
